# bikepacking

bikepacking and biketouring - it has to be one of the best ways to
travel. like walking, you're limited by your own body and forced to take in a
lot more of your natural surroundings. however, like a car, you can actually
get somewhere! but, like running, it is kind of like you're punishing yourself
to do something you don't have to, but know it will be rewarding when you're
done. yet its also like backpacking, because you can't bring everything you
want and you need to be specific about what is worth hauling to your campsite
or destination. and somewhat like sailing, you get to use a machine and physics
to help you get from point A to point B much more efficiently than you could
otherwise (without using fuel). oh, and yeah, its like bicycling too of course.

over the last decade i've only done a handful of trips, all ranging from 50 to
150 miles. none of them are too big, and usually we split things up over
multiple days. this cadence allows us to take time to take photos, explore a
side trail, hike to the beach, or often, have a midday beer or coffee. usually
with a more relaxed pace like this, we also end up getting to where we're
intending to go a bit earlier in the day, so have time to relax and hangout
wherever we end up. usually we will do something very casual, like 25-50 miles a day. while if you don't bicycle, that sounds maybe like a lot, but really, it isn't so much if you split up your riding throughout the day.

## randonneuring

i'd like to think that in general, we take after [randonneurring](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randonneuring). to quote the randonneurs USA [site](https://rusa.org/):

> Randonneuring is long-distance unsupported endurance cycling. This style of riding is non-competitive in nature, and self-sufficiency is paramount. When riders participate in randonneuring events, they are part of a long tradition that goes back to the beginning of the sport of cycling in France and Italy. Friendly camaraderie, not competition, is the hallmark of randonneuring.

randonées are so non-competitive that they often set both minimum _and_ maximum
speeds during the event, such that those going to fast have to simply wait at
checkpoints to progress. while a traditional randonées are roughly 120 miles,
much more than i generally would do in a day, i still feel like the spirit and
style are attractive. having completed a single randonée makes you a randonneur... for life. its a lifelong title. how awesome is that?

## routes

being in san francisco, naturally most of the rides i've taken are starting or
ending in san francisco. i've started writing down some of the routes as ways
of both documenting and planning the trip, but also sharing the route with
others who might be interested before we depart:

* [[sf-sc-sf]]: a route from SF -> santa cruz -> san jose -> SF
* [[sf-pr-sf]]: a route from SF -> point reyes -> SF
